---
layout: post
title: Welcome!
description: Welcome post introducing readers to the site
date: 2024-08-05
modified: 
categories: 
tags:
  - first
  - obsidian
  - markdown
  - blogging
---
# Welcome to my site!
## Home, sweet home
I've wanted to create a homepage for myself for a while now, especially after buying `jasoncrevier.com` -- but I was never quite sure what it should be for.

Should it be a blog? Should it just link to other sites I use? Should it be a resume?

Where I really saw a need was when I noticed that I was constantly going back to find old videos or articles to remind myself of a linux command or a process. I noticed that often these would be links to people's personal blog where they had written down the process to refer to themselves, which then became useful to other people.

I started doing the same in [Obsidian](https://obsidian.md/) (a really sleek, markdown-driven note-taking app). For example, having it open while I set up a new system, and writing down all the steps and commands I used.

I wanted to share some of these notes with the world, and it occurred to me that if I could find a way to write up my content in Obsidian, and then use a few commands to publish it to the web, then boom, there's my personal homepage.

So I set out looking for a way to do it.
## Static sites are alright
Markdown is designed to convert nicely into HTML. So it stood to reason that someone must have tackled this idea of drafting everything in markdown and then automagically converting it into a website. 

The answer came in the form of static site generation. That is, a site driven by plain HTML, CSS, and some light JS. You create the content, publish it, and it stays as is until you publish it again. That means it's simple, lightweight, and blazingly fast.

The most popular static site generators I could find were:
- Hugo
- Jekyll
- Pico CMS
- Gatsby

I played around with a few, and landed on Jekyll. I found a theme, added a little flavour, and here we are! I'm tempted to get a little more into the technical side here, but I think I'll save it for a future post.
## See you around
I'll start populating this feed with mainly notes about my adventures in Linux and self-hosting, but also anything else that comes to mind. Come back later to see it all.